# Boix and Stokes. 2003.

Class: POLI 101
Importance: ★★★★★
Methods: Game-theoretic, Quantitative
Source: World Politics
Subfield: CP
Tag: Major
Topic1: Outcome
Topic2: Democracy
Topic3: Economic growth
Type: Article
Year: 2003

### Full Citation:

Boix, Carles, and Susan C. Stokes. 2003. "Endogeous Democratization." *World Politics* 55(4): 517-549.

---

### What is the general question/topic being investigated?

---

- Are rich dictatorships more likely than poor dictatorships to collapse and be replaced by democracies?
- Why do we observe a higher proportion of democracies among rich countries than among poor countries?
- Do the relative levels of development make a transition to democracy more likely?

### Argument(s)/Explanation(s): What is the theory? What do the authors expect to find? Why?

---

- Endogenous: Development increases the likelihood that poor countries will undergo a transition to democracy.
- Exogenous: Development makes democracies, once established, less likely to fall to dictatorship.
    - If exogenous theory holds, we need a theory in which
        - development induces actors in democracies to sustain that system but does not induce actors in a dictatorship to change to democracy.

### Type of Analysis: How do the authors test their argument?

---

- Theoretical review and empirical re-test.
    - Expanding the sample
    - Re-estimate
    - Model Specification (OVB)
    - Introduce new mechanism: Inequality

### What is the sample? What cases do the authors look at? How broad is their coverage?

---

- Countries from 1850 to 1990. Country-year unit of analysis.

### Finding(s): What do the authors conclude based on the evidence?

---

- Economic development both causes democracy and sustain it.
    - How does it cause democracy? Through inequality.

### Key words/phrases or unclear words/phrases

---

- 

### Follow-up questions

---

-